[THEME MUSIC]
>> Well, it was a
Friday night date night.
And I was out with
my loving husband.
It was one of those
rare nights we
had to get the kids a
babysitter and we go out
for a romantic evening.
We have excellent
wine, fabulous food,
there's romance in the air.
And we get home, I
tuck in the kids,
he takes the babysitter
home, and you
know what's coming next, right?
I crawl into bed, my husband
crawls in next to me, reaches
his arm around me, and I
roll over, pull the covers up
under my chin and pretend
to be fast asleep.
And as I lay there, I thought,
what is wrong with me?
Am I broken?
What happened to my desire?
What happened to my
sex drive, my passion?
What was the reason
that I didn't
want to reach back towards him?
And as I lay there, tears
welled up in my eyes
as I was feigning sleep,
I thought to myself,
here I am, an OB/GYN,
a hormone specialist,
and I don't know the answers.
I feel broken.
And I don't know,
maybe some of you
have felt that way
in the past too.
I thought to myself,
is it because I'm
exhausted or too tired?
Is it because it's going
to hurt, be uncomfortable?
Is it because I didn't want
to fake another orgasm?
OK, don't tell me you've
never faked an orgasm.
And so as I thought, OK,
this is my specialty,
and I know other women
are suffering too.
I committed then to
find the answers.
And I spent the next
20 years of my life
asking questions,
doing research,
looking for these underlying
issues that dissolve intimacy,
that create a sexless marriage
or the relationship of roommates
instead of lovers.
And as I researched,
I found that there
were three common
underlying issues that
disrupt our intimacy.
And I call them the three
D's, desire, whether it's
a loss of primary desire,
the desire to initiate sex,
or secondary desire.
Sometimes you feel, OK, once you
get started, you're good to go.
And that can happen for
a number of reasons.
But the second D is disconnect.
You feel disconnected.
Maybe you think,
I love my partner.
I just don't feel love for them.
And the third D is discomfort,
whether from pelvic pain,
dryness.
And I always tell
my clients, if it
hurts every time
you do something,
why would you want to, right?
And often, that's
subconscious and it
causes that disconnect as well,
causes the roommate scenario.
When I ask patients questions,
and as I asked and I researched,
the first thing that I realized
is that I was not alone.
I was not broken.
I was not abnormal.
And as I address these
underlying issues in my life
and the lives of patients, I
also realize that there was
an important hormone
connecting all these three D's.
It's actually the most
important hormone in our body.
It is the hormone of love
and bonding, the hormone
of happiness and connection.
It is a natural
anti-aging hormone
and it is very famous for
its role in parturition,
in labor and delivery
and delivering a baby,
and in breastfeeding.
And it is the hormone oxytocin.
And oxytocin is the most
powerful hormone in our body.
It is an alkalinizing hormone.
It is a high vibration,
positive energy hormone,
and it is healing.
It helps also with bone density,
with treating aged muscles,
with vaginal moisture
and lubrication.
It's a natural analgesic.
It also helps with
learning and thinking.
Oxytocin is powerful,
and it's deficient states
you feel isolated,
disconnected, alone.
It's associated with
autistic states as well.
And there are simple ways
that we can increase oxytocin.
But what's first really
important to understand
is how does oxytocin
get low to begin with?
Well, there's another very
powerful hormone in our body,
and it's our stress
hormone, cortisol.
And it is at war
with oxytocin, often
in our bodies at
times of stress.
So cortisol is the
stress hormone.
And whether it's financial
stress, relational stress,
emotional stress, physical
stress, post-traumatic stress,
everyday stress,
cortisol goes up.
And when it does,
oxytocin goes down.
And now you're in this
state-- it makes sense too.
When you're in this, when you're
being attacked or you're in war,
you don't see the humanity
and love and kindness
features of your enemy.
You're in this fight, flight,
and free or free state, a sense
that you need to escape.
And when cortisol is up for
too long, it gets suppressed
and now you're in this very
dangerous physiologic state.
It's a state of burnout,
that sense like, hey, I
know I like my work.
I used to love going in and now
I don't even want to anymore.
Or I know I love my husband.
I just don't feel like them.
It's a physiology of
burnout, divorce, depression.
And this is a dangerous state.
And this is when you're in
this state of low oxytocin
and low cortisol, it feels--
you stop doing the
things you enjoy doing.
You feel like you're in
a state of isolation.
So the solution to this
state, this physiologic state,
and I've been there, is to
increase the hormone oxytocin
throughout your day.
And I call it, not with
foreplay, but that's fun too,
but with OxyPlay.
OxyPlay.
By microdosing, not
mushrooms, but oxytocin
throughout your day.
And we do that
with the three P's.
Play, doing things you like.
Playing with a pet,
that unconditional
love you get from your animal.
Playing pickleball with
friends, going for a hike,
doing things you enjoy, being
playful, finding the humor
in life.
All of those things
increase oxytocin.
And the second P is pleasure.
Now, as women, we
have erogenous zones
all over our body, back of
our neck, top of our head,
bottom of our feet.
Men, well, not so much.
It's important to explore
those erogenous zones
and have fun with it.
Get curious.
And the third P is presence and
being present with gratitude
throughout your day.
So when it comes to
intimacy, being present
during times of sex, it's
not making your to-do list,
your shopping list,
your carpool list,
thinking of tomorrow's agenda,
and I've done all of those.
So it is being present
and in your body.
And you can coach your partner.
If you're not being
present, coach
them to give you a spanking.
That will put you right
back in your body.
OK.
So my girlfriend doctor's
prescription to you
is to OxyPlay, to
incorporate oxytocin,
microdosing oxytocin into
your day through play,
being present, and being--
experiencing pleasure,
doing the things
that bring you more
pleasure in your life,
enjoying yourself in every
present moment with gratitude.
So when you go out today
from this conference.
With the people you're
enjoying, express gratitude.
Give a good oxytocin hug,
a good oxytocin kiss.
Joke, laugh.
Play.
Don't take yourself
too seriously.
And this way, also,
as you OxyPlay
with presence,
playfulness, and pleasure,
you're also improving your
ability to be intimate
and to connect.
And so the next time your loving
partner reaches out to you,
you reach back.
Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[THEME MUSIC]